---
permalink: /config-manager/
title: "Gestion de plusieurs configurations"
---

It is possible to have multiple configurations, so you can easily change settings depending on the game or ruleset you apply.

When you change the settings with `!tset`, you edit the configuration **default**. All tournaments will first use these settings. Suppose you have for example set all the parameters like this for your 1v1 Smash bros tournaments.

You can then create a new configuration, for example for Melee tournaments, and set a different ruleset channel, a list of different stages, as well as a separate player role. Using this configuration, the bot will first use these settings and then switch to the default configuration.

## Utilisation

### Créer une configuration

You can manage your configurations with `!tset config`.

| Commande              | Description                          |
| --------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| `!tset config add`    | Ajoute une nouvelle configuration    |
| `!tset config remove` | Supprime l'une des configurations    |
| `!tset config list`   | Affiche la liste des configurations  |
| `!tset config rename` | Renomme une configuration            |
| `!tset config clone`  | Duplique une configuration existante |

So, to create a configuration "2v2 Ultimate", you will do `!tset config add "2v2 Ultimate"`. *(Yes you have to use quotation marks if there is space)*

<div markdown="1" class="notice--success">

If the name of your configuration is the same of a game, then the bot will automatically use this configuration when you organize a tournament for that game.

Be careful though, the name of the game must be exactly the same as the one presented on Challonge.

</div>

### Définir les réglages

To modify the parameters of this configuration, you must use a "flag" in your command, that is to say include the text `-c` or `--config` at the end of your command, followed by the name of your configuration.

<div markdown="1" class="notice--primary">

<h4 class="no_toc">Exemples</h4>

- `!tset channels ruleset #règles-melee -c "Super Smash Bros. Melee"`
- `!tset delay 15 --config 2v2`
- `!tset register 3d 1h --config weekly`
- `!tset warntime 30m 5m10s -c "League of Legends"`

</div>

As you see you just need to add `-c "Name of the configuration"` somewhere at the end of your command.

Then, if you want to see the settings of your config, you just have to use the command `!tset settings` the same way.

<div markdown="1" class="notice--primary">

<h4 class="no_toc">Exemples</h4>

- `!tset settings -c "Super Smash Bros. Melee"`
- `!tset settings --config 2v2`

</div>

### Utiliser votre configuration

As said before, a configuration whose name matches the name of the game will be used automatically if no other configuration is specified manually.

Otherwise, to specify a configuration, it's the same with `!setup` quite simply, always with this "flag".

<div markdown="1" class="notice--primary">

<h4 class="no_toc">Exemples</h4>

- `!setup https://challonge.com/fr/SSBM222 -c "Super Smash Bros. Melee"`
- `!setup https://challonge.com/fuzb1d3f/settings --config 2v2`

</div>
