---
permalink: /scores-bracket/
title: "Les scores et le bracket"
---

## Réglage du score par les participants

Participants can adjust their score themselves with the command `!win`. It's up to the ** winner ** to use the order, not the loser.

If you have configured a rules channel with `!tset channels scores`, then this command will be restricted to it.

<div markdown="1" class="notice--primary">

<h4 class="no_toc">Exemples</h4>

- `!win 2-1`
- `!win 0-2`
- `!win 3-1`

</div>

The order of the scores does not matter, since the user of the order is considered the winner in all cases.

<div markdown="1" class="notice--warning">

<h4 class="no_toc">Attention</h4>

The only restriction imposed on this command is a minimum delay of 5 minutes after the start of the match.

Otherwise it's pretty free, players can set outliers (no consistency check against match format), so it's up to you to check there is no abuse.

</div>

If there has been abuse, you can change the score directly on the bracket ...

## Les manipulations de bracket

It is possible for you to change elements directly on the bracket, and you may say to yourself that it is risky, but no, the bot manages the cases of modifications! Here are all the cases that the bot will handle correctly :

### Le score d'un match en cours est réglé via Challonge

In this case, the bot will properly end the match, announcing the score in the set channel which will then be deleted after 5 minutes of inactivity as usual.

### Un match terminé est relancé via Challonge

Typical examples : requalification of a participant or correction of a false score

- If the channel for this match still exists, it is reused, players are pinged and invited to replay.
- If the channel no longer exists, a new one is recreated, explaining the situation in addition to the usual message.

### Un match en cours est annulé via Challonge

Typically, a previous match is restarted, canceling all subsequent ones.

In this case, the channels of the matches in progress will be immediately deleted, and the players will be warned in PM.

Also note that this also happens when you cancel the tournament with the `!resetbracket` command.

----

If one of these changes is detected for one or more matches, T.O.s will also be notified in their channel.